---
path: "/blog/thank-you-luno"
date: "2020-09-30"
title: "Thanks for everything Luno"
---

To my fellow Lunauts,

Today is my last day with all of you after almost 5 years spent together upgrading the world to a better financial system. What a blast these years have been! I’m writing this message today as, while I’m so excited for Luno’s journey ahead, I have decided to take an opportunity to start something new with some great co-founders. I’ll speak more about this elsewhere. 

Whenever you make a change like the one I am making  you tend to spend some time taking stock. You see the things that have changed you, and boy has Luno changed me. When I first sat in the room behind *22Seven* chatting about why I wanted to join my expectations were simple, learn about Bitcoin, about mobile, and about building companies.

In the years that followed I was privileged to have all those expectations met and exceeded over and over. Whenever there was a new path to follow, a new thing that I knew nothing about, there was a fellow Lunaut there to teach me, or support me in giving it a go. It would be impossible to list the things I learnt working with all of you, but I’d like to highlight some learnings that were particularly special to me:

- **Pragmatism** as a tool and a core value. This defining feature of our culture was first pointed out to me, and Nick Rout, by Neil Garb when visiting Vijay in the Singapore office years ago, and since then it has always stuck out to me. It is probably best exemplified by hearing Timothy saying “*but why?*”. It is so easy to forget how many companies make decisions primarily based on how things have always been done, or should probably be done, without really knowing why. So many times we have arrived at better, or more efficient, solutions because we didn’t settle until we knew that our solution was the right tool for the job.
- **Focus** as a way to punch above your weight. So much of what we have achieved is down to being the best in the world at what we do. Which in turn is very often down to how we have managed to focus on doing a select few things very well. There is probably not a single Lunaut that has not heard Alex say “*no*”, but I’m not sure we always know how lucky we are to have someone so good at doing this. Learning how and why this matters so much has changed my professional and personal life.
- We have genuinely solved people’s problems. Not in a “this will work, I guess” kind of way, but in truly understanding what our customers need most and giving that to them. By working back from what is best for our customers and not what is possible we have often ended up doing the impossible. While this was true in various build and operations teams across the business nobody demonstrated this **problem solving** ability more, or taught me more about how to pursue it, than Lana. The first name on any team sheet I write I am super grateful for my own sake, and for Luno’s sake, that we have been lucky enough to have her on our team.
- We have built a team that cares, about our customers and about each other. The support, opportunities and guidance we give each other is something special, and one of the things that make Luno one of the best places in the world to work. Helping the teams work to improve how we do this I have learned more about **developing people** than I ever knew I had to learn, and I know I still have a long way to go. The learnings I take away here are probably the most significant ones for my career, and are in large part due to having had the privilege of working under Neil Kelly. I also know that his impact on how we grow people at Luno is felt even outside the engineering team.
- **Balance** as one of the keys to startup success. Our company, and I don't think I'll ever stop using “*our*” 😉, continues to be one of the most balanced ones I have ever worked for. Having Marcus, Timothy, Pieter and Carel as co-founders each providing different strengths, and balancing the different functions right from the start has seemed to me a key force in Luno becoming one of the most important companies in our industry, as well as one of the most important companies to come out of Africa.

These highlights are but a few from an endless list. To everyone that has worked in my teams you have taught me more than I could ever teach you. To every Lunaut, I have learned something from you, and the person I am in every aspect of my life is different than when I started here. Whatever I achieve over the course of the rest of my life, and whomever I am to my family and friends, will be because of you. **Thank you.**

I’ll leave you with a last thought. Reflecting on the conversations I had when I first joined I remember trying to explain what Bitcoin was back then. What an uphill battle! Nobody had ever heard of it, and it is easy to forget just how much this has changed, but changed it has. By no coincidence it has changed most dramatically in the countries where Luno has focused our attention. People in coffee shops and taxis are speaking about ways to upgrade their money, they are speaking about Bitcoin. Our society is different already. **You have changed the world**. Not many people can say that, and you must never forget to celebrate this at every summit.
 
Having said that, while our society is different the work is not done, there is an incredibly exciting journey ahead which I have no doubt will be made all the more impactful with increased backing from *DCG*. Celebrating customer number 50,000 and 5,000,000 will remain some of my most treasured memories, and I look forward to celebrating the news of person number 1 Billion gaining access to a better financial system. When I do I’ll be toasting the Lunauts, and newnauts to come, who made it possible.

Cheers,\
Rick
